---
layout: default
title: Post Process
parent: Image Processing
grand_parent: Tutorials
nav_order: 4
---
After initial processing in Siril, I will post-process with Gimp. The GIMP workflow is less linear than Siril, so rather than give a step by step approach, I'll simply list some techniques.


## Adjust levels

Choose Colors, Levels. Adjust the lower level to be at the bottom of the curve, adjust mid slide for appropriate black level

{% picture blog gimp-1.jpg %}

## Unpurple
If some of your stars have purple fringes, you can remove them by using the "unpurple" filter in [G'MIC Gimp plugin](https://gmic.eu/). Note, this will affect the colours in your entire image so if it's detrimental, you can clone your image into a 2nd layer, unpurple that layer, apply a layer mask so that you expose only the stars that were purple. For my image, the unpurple filter has resulted in the blues becoming slightly more cyan. I like this effect so I'm keeping it

{% picture blog gimp-2.jpg %}

## Sharpening with AstroSharp

I'll temporarily transform to greyscale and export a TIF. I'll then "undo" the greyscale.

{% picture blog gimp-3.jpg %}

Now I'll load the image into AstroSharp and wait for it to process. This will take a while. Once the image is finished, drag and drop it onto Gimp. This will load it as a new layer. Once this is loaded, change the layer mode to "luminance" and turn the opacity down to approximately 50% or until you're happy with the way it looks

{% picture blog gimp-4.jpg %}

## Shadows Highlights

Make sure you've selected your main layer, and adjust Shadows-Highlights from the Color menu. I suggest you push the white point adjustment as high as it will go, then adjust the shadows slider until your blacks look good. After that, adjust highlights slider to being some contrast

{% picture blog gimp-5.jpg %}

## Color Balance

Use the color balance sliders to tweak things until they look good

{% picture blog gimp-6.jpg %}

## Star Recombining

You need the following :-

* A with-stars version of your image (either stretched or unstretched) (TIF)
* A star mask as generated by Starnet++ (FITS)
* A stretched without-stars version of your image (TIF)

Once you have these three artifacts, begin by opening the stretched without-stars version in Gimp

{% picture blog starmask-1.jpg %}

Next, drag the with-stars version into the layers area in Gimp. Move the layer so it's at the top of the stack. If you loaded an unstretched version, go to colors/levels & click "auto input levels"

{% picture blog starmask-2.jpg %}

Drag in your starmask. When offered, tell GIMP to replace undefined images in the FITS with black.

{% picture blog starmask-3.jpg %}

Now for the tricky bit. We need to copy/paste the star mask into the with-stars layer as its mask. To do this, firstly create a layer mask on your with-stars layer by right clicking and choosing add layer mask. You should initialize to black (full transparency). 

{% picture blog starmask-4.jpg %}

Make your star mask visible either by moving it to the top of the stack or turn off the other layers. Right click your starmask choose select/select all, then choose edit/copy to copy your entire starmask to the copy/paste buffer. 
{% picture blog starmask-5.jpg %}

Now make the with-stars layer visible by either moving it to the top of the stack or making it the only one visible. Right click your with-stars layer and pick "show layer mask". You should now see a black screen. Right click and choose edit/paste. You'll notice a new layer has appeared called "floating section". Right click this new layer and choose "anchor layer". This new layer should disappear and become the layer mask. 

{% picture blog starmask-6.jpg %}

Right click the with-stars layer and untick "show layer mask". You can now delete the starmask layer because we've now moved it into the with-stars mask so we don't need the layer anymore. You can also renable your without-stars layer

{% picture blog starmask-7.jpg %}

You're now at a stage where you're seeing just the stars from your with-stars image. You can now click the layer mask on your with-stars layer and go to colors/levels. If you move the midpoint slider to the left, more stars are exposed

{% picture blog starmask-8.jpg %}
